Actually, I don't think culture even says that.
I don't know whether I've asked him or not.
But you might ask him what he means by intellectual freedom, whether it means professional disagreement and how one deals with the professional environment.
He has no concept of collegiality whatsoever.
Which I think also led to this building.
I kind of feel it's a meaningless building.
It's almost like a meaningless building.
It's trying to cover so many bases not well, and it's losing the basic concept of what a library should be.
He really had something against the departmentalization of the subject departments being in a really organized... Having an integrity, yeah.
He didn't really believe the integrity of the subject area at all.
No, he wanted a library without walls.
Yeah.
And boy, did he get it.
Did he say that?
Yeah.
He talked about the library without walls.
Tearing down walls, right?
Take a look at the electronic library.
I think he talks about it.
Did he talk about it in there?
That's why the Pompidou Library was so instrumental in his trip.
Oh, what's his name?
Coulter said he hated it.
Of course, it's one of the... The Pompidou Library is the... Some of it is very good.
I mean, the color scheme is... He hated the Pompidou?
Yeah.
Yeah, it really is.
I mean, you know, I was only there for one day.
I can't even say whether I liked it or not.
I know I didn't like the color, the awful green color that they used for the bookshelves.
Where do you see the new French library?
Oh, I heard about it.
I was there last night.
You were there.
Regarding the takeover of the libraries in France by the National Front, the Le Pen Party, and the disastrous effects upon the libraries of France of this right-wing political party.
Really?
Yep.
It's very bad.
How are they taking all of the libraries?
They're throwing librarians out.
They're censoring materials.
They're firing librarians.
Librarians are resigning because of this.
They're closing down libraries, evidently.
See, and that's another, I think really that's in the basis of this Kolder-Dowen axis, too.
I mean, basically, isn't that quite, you know, quite obvious?
But they have disdainful librarians, Kolder and Dowen, because that's one group that can question them.
And for the collections, and for the public.
And the point is, I really have to say, and he talks about, like anybody can do, I mean, we don't need librarians, we just need service people.
It could be anybody, you know, there's just, there's no, there's no quality to that.
Do you have a definition of what a librarian is?
There's a softball.
Yeah.
disappearing?
Well, I think a librarian is someone who is interested in... Well, you don't have to really talk about what the interest is.
Is the library as a... actually as a refuge for independent... No, but I wrote the library as a person.
The librarian is one who recognizes the need for an institution that will contain
kind of the highest quality of intellectual achievements, make it available and interpret the organization and the collection of the library.
I think understanding of the collection.
Right, exactly, exactly.
And that's the point.
It's not merely just being custodian of what you have.
Exactly, exactly.
And also constantly developing in such a hostile environment is created here so that if you really want to develop in your area, thanks for teams, that's discourage.
You know, no, you're just a pig here.
We need a whole here, we need a whole here.
And all of us who have some love of like our areas and we develop and, you know, we're interested in creating the highest quality here for the public.
And also in depth.
And also, I mean, I have a feeling you don't go to the lowest level.
It's like you don't get to know exactly what they ask for.
I think you create a collection and I think people will rise to a collective.
If you create that kind of collection, people do rise.
to the type of collection you have.
Because you have great expectations, too.
I think it is to create an intelligent public.
It is the creation of a highly intelligent public.
That's absolutely right.
That's interesting, isn't it?
And also has a love...
Oh, well, you know what?
I have to.
I have to be back.
I have to go.
I have to be back, and I have about five more minutes.
Okay.
I mean, we're trying to just go all over the place.
Yeah, but basically... It's also, I mean, in fact, we have to do talk about our love of books.
I mean, many, I think, for librarianship is not an access to databases.
Databases are fine, but that's what they are.
They're data.
And books are more than data.
And that's why I feel, in a sense, what's happening in librarianship, even in these schools, is so unfortunate, where the emphasis
is on the technology, yeah, the emphasis on technology, which is, at this point, not only very fluid, we don't know where it's going, but it's, what is it?
It's, yeah, it's name is right, it's called a database, so it's data, and the library is more than data.
This fits in, again, this is still a work in progress, but, did you have to use?
No, she just has, she's coming right back.
Is that, uh,
So the librarians, if they don't train the librarians, there's no value placed on them.
They're downsizing and outsourcing.
And creating this terribly hostile environment to any of our ideals.
Taylor is now getting books for... For Hawaii, right.
They're ordering.
You know, making fun of idealism.
I mean, what is it except this is what people love when they come to the library.
How many times, even in our library bondages, people said, we want books, we want a nice place to go to.
and we want people who know about books.
We want the librarians to help us.
And the librarians even, I don't know whether Andrea mentioned this, when they did a survey of city workers, librarians got the highest marks here from the public of who are the most.
Is that published?
Yeah, oh yeah, it's in the Chronicle, right.
The city workers, you know, there was a survey done of all the city workers and librarians got the highest mark.
People love the librarians more than any other.
I'd love to get a copy of that.
The city workers, yeah.
Andrea probably has.
But it's in the Chronicle.
So it's basically only a couple of months ago that we sat around.
I think that people like me are being crowded out, we're being hounded, we're being treated with disdain and contempt.
by library commissions and by library directors, I wouldn't say main strategies here.
The techies, the people who are valuing technology over books, and they're winning the fight.
Exactly, and talking about discourse, like there's no discourse saying, you know,
He's even talking about prudent use of technology, and he doesn't see that at all.
This is C, that's that one.
He says that in order for libraries to survive, I can see where he's coming from, you have to be at the cutting, whatever.
I hate all these terms to the cutting edge.
Whatever that means, state of the art, 21st century, world class.
Classes, right, it's a class, certain classes of libraries.
I know.
And he brings them out of the cutting edge.
Cutting edge, bottom line.
What else did he say, so to speak, if you will.
If you will.
And basically, it is kind of the humanist outlook is gradually being squelched.
And it's a technocratic takeover of a cultural institution, and it's very sad.
And this is an example of it.
But also I have to say, Nick, the bottom line is,
that they know smart or different than others.
It's not working.
Basically, this private health exam, this place doesn't work.
So tell me, again, once more, you're from New York.
Right.
Where'd you go to schools in New York?
I went, I graduated CCNY.
I was, I taught in New York City public schools for many years.
And you've been here since... I've been here since 68.
Sixty-seven, sorry.
Sixty-seven.
Went to library school at Berkeley, UC Berkeley.
And which degree there?
I got, yeah, an MLS at Berkeley.
MLS Berkeley.
What year was that?
Sixty-eight.
And now, actually, I'm attending SF State.
They have this elder college program.
So for four or five years, I've been doing graduate work in literature and the humanities.
And all of this is treated with disdain, you know, like.
And what I said in that first column, when we first had that earthquake, and I hold to it now, is that this is not a humanistic library.
It's a technocratic library.
It's not an homage to culture, to history, even to the history of San Francisco, basically.
Do we have a labor collection?
Do we have, I mean, we have certain immigrant groups, but do we have other immigrant groups?
Do we have a poetry collection?
It's such a lopsided mishmash.
I have to use that word.
I was thinking about it just a few minutes ago.
It really is about money, because even with the art and music department, even though they refuse to go along with the dumping of the books, they, too,
had money that was donated or benefited.
Was driving them.
Yeah, was driving them.
I said, who are they going to dump the other place?
Yeah.
I said, well, nobody knows.
Oh, that's not true.
I said, nobody knows.
I said, you know, I'm no use.
I'm no use.
Go back to the Aegean stables.
Yeah, okay.
Okay, go back to that.
Well, let me ask them tomorrow.
Did you water the... I want to use them.
That's that conversation.
Did you water the... Weaving or discarding.
Discarding.
And what does he mean by cleaning out the Aegean stables?
And I can drink.
I mean, there are witnesses.
Can he deny saying that, or is he on the record that's having said that?
What?
No, he's on the record.
He's on the record.
Cleaning out the Orgy in the Sables.
He'll be very proud of his answer.
Yeah, he probably will be.
He said, yes, I agree with that.
There's just too much crap here.
Now, what about witnesses?
Oh, when we were in the transition of moving from the old name to the new name, and it was discovered that there wasn't enough room in the collection, we said, witnesses.
The chief of Maine at that time was Kathy Page, and you can even ask her, and said, we have to do massive weaving immediately.
And she even mentioned, I've forgotten how many shelves full.
We have to get... By the linear... By the linear... Or shelves full, or... Yeah, of range fulls, right.
We just don't have enough room.
This was never made public.
I mean, in the public, in a sense,
if you can talk to culture, never were told.
I mean, they didn't vote for this kind of building.
They were never told there was not going to be enough room.
And they knew about it.
They knew there wasn't going to be enough room about a half way through.
And they realized they weren't going to have it.
Well, we knew it from 1991.
There's a petition.
But even they knew it from this building itself, that there wasn't even going to be enough room, the room that they promised.
And it was never...
It was never honestly admitted.
We don't even have the room that we had promised.
And the fact that 60%, close to 60% of our periodical collection is over there in Brooks Hall is a testimony.
And not only that, it's just as though it doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter to any of these people.
That the bulk of our periodical collection is over there.
Because the whole thing is to be current.
And as you said, like it's, you know, stay in the art form.
Well, no, people aren't interested in that stuff.
See, it's a sustain for history, too.
People are interested in that stuff.
They just want the latest stuff.
And you just have to give them the latest.
And as it was pointed out in that article in Harbors, is that basically you go into Barnes and Noble, you almost have more of a library atmosphere than you have.
You have a greater in-depth collection.
You have people sitting quietly doing homework.
But the point of the library is not to be on the cutting edge.
The point of the library is to have what people will not be able to find elsewhere.
The joy, you know, the concept of going into it, we're not a bookstore.
And this is a big philosophical difference, because as you said, there is for videos, there's blockbuster videos, there's Barnes & Noble.
Basically, the unique part of the library is that joy of discovery, that you go in and you find something that no one else, it will be nowhere else, this is open to the public, and there's no other way of finding this type of material.
Just to be able to discover unknown material that you're not even looking for.
Oh, do you know what someone found?
The only listing in the online catalog for Upper and Lower Canada directed her to a book printed in the late 18th century that was transferred from Brooks Hall up into our department.
She said it was the most wonderful book.
She's doing some research on the history of Canada.
and needed that book, was the only one that she could find the entire library, and she'd found it.
Well, this has been our constant experience, is, oh, we were looking for something else, and look what I found.
And where else can you find it?
I mean, that's the unique quality of this institution that is really being denied by this emphasis on popularity, on cutting edge, on the bookstore psychology.
you're angry i'm really i'm pissed well what happened is that and i have to i have to end with even the words of my little grandson because he came to see my grandma in the library and as he came in through lock-in and he just saw these sweeping vistas and he said where are the books and that's a good question exactly everybody said but here's out of the mouth of bay right you know just where are the books
A great old library has been really jerked around.
Circle jerked around.
No, it was a great old library.
Oh, that was what they called.
They called.
Well, because he's talking about the fact that these so-called non-profit boards,
all have the same members of the same San Francisco elite group, like the people on this board.
Sherry Alexander is also on the board of KQED.
Sherry Thomas.
Sherry Thomas is also on the board of KQED.
KQED.
They're also on the board of the Presidio.
It's a good article.
All these people, the same people on all the boards.
Dale Coulson, he's like a Pacific Stock Exchange, he's on this board, he's on that board, he's on that board.
So all these kind of cultural institutions
Daniel Flanagan.
You found rare things in there?
Just for the sake of the tape, can you just say who we are?
I'm Alan D'Souza.
Alan, and how do you spell that?
A-L-A-N-D-apostrophe-S-O-U-Z-A.
Okay, and your page, is that right?
I'm on my library page, yes.
S-O-U-Z-A, right?
Yes.
And you are?
And my name is Claire LaVote, and I'm... C-L-A-I-R-E?
C-L-A-I-R-E.
Okay.
And how do you spell LaVote?
L-A capital V-A-U-T-E.
And I work here as a 3616, a library technical assistant.
I do a lot of processing.
I'm interested in the people here and all of this work.
the accessioning of books away, as they used the word dumping.
That's what was going on.
They were quite literally dumping books in the back of BPW, the Department of Public Works, pickup trucks, and just hauling them away to the graveyard.
Claire actually managed to get some photographs of that.
Is that right?
Yeah.
What were your thoughts when you saw that?
Oh, well, basically, I felt like a fool, but I cried, and Alan was there when I was crying on it.
I mean, it was just, it got to the point where it was happening so frequently in such numbers.
And I actually, I did approach several of the administration and I asked them, please stop what was happening.
And they told me that, you know, it was all this finger pointing as to who was actually responsible.
And nobody wanted to take responsibility, I guess.
And I mean, I can say, I don't know if I should say, so we'll talk about this.
But I did go to the chief of Maine.
I was also just come down the steps.
She was the chief of Maine at the time, Kathy Page.
And I said, I know.
Yeah.
I thought she wasn't here.
No, well, um, she's... In this room right now?
Um, yeah.
But, um... She walked downstairs?
Okay, she made the stairs.
Oh, just that, um, I mean, I approached people on that level.
I stopped during the bathroom and I said, I know that there are other things pending, but, um...
you know, this is going on and I don't think it's right and can you do something about it?
And she told me basically that she was sure that my supervisor had other things for me to worry about.
And at that time it was Dennis Menes and in fact I did go to him and I asked him for prevention to be involved in some sort of a program which was supposed to have been in existence and I spoke with the man who was responsible for the program as well and he just felt like his hands had been tied because he had no
he had no set up to do any outreach into the community he had no staff it was him as an individual trying to deal with this mountain of books and to give them away and he had tried several times and each effort had been a failure in his opinion and so he was basically kind of
I guess, resigning himself to what was going on at the time.
It seemed like the only solution to him.
But clearly there was another solution.
We've had an incredible response once they got it up and running.
I mean, people have flown here from other places in the country to try to take advantage of the books that we're giving away.
Now, what was it about your job that brought you into proximity to this?
Did you give me your title, by the way, or your...
Yeah, I'm a library technical assistant.
I use the wand, and I like zap barcodes.
I process them, and I route them in, route them out, change their status, their location, play for damage.
So you were doing this over at the Old Main?
Well, actually, at the time there, I was working doing bindery work.
I was assembling magazines so they could be sent out to get bound.
And that was what brought me into proximity of the whole thing, was that I was there on the fourth stack probably six hours of every day, and I would walk back and forth there in the well, which you can see.
So what did you think?
What did you mean?
Did you see truckloads?
It was horrifying.
It was like burying people alive.
Really?
Who was bringing books there?
Actually, I would buy the books.
There would be stacks of books on the shelves and my job was to make sure they were drawn and then tie them up in little bundles.
They had to be nice little tidy bundles so that the DPW guys wouldn't hurt their backs and the books wouldn't fall out when they were tossing them in the back.
and take the bundles neatly and stack them inside this room downstairs that was not under lock and key until after it hit the press.
After it hit the press is when the opera book program went in full swing.
How long was this going?
Oh, months.
Nine months of incredibly large dumping.
Do you have any rough idea of how many books you think would offer?
Well, I think that, I mean, the library, I know that the library admits to having thrown out 100,000.
I would say just from personal estimation, eyeball that, and also just knowing the way that the administration tried to like spin the whole experience.
I think it was more close to 200,000, maybe even more than that.
So when you mentioned this to Catherine Page, you knew what the books were reading.
Yes.
Yes, and I mean, this is something that I've never, you know, I mean, I've never seen this print before, but yeah, she now, and she's right there.
She's walking away.
She's behind a pillar.
She's got white hair.
She's quite an attractive woman, and she's very nice, very personable.
She'll climb the stairs over to you right now?
Yeah.
I wonder where she's going.
Is she still in the building today?
I don't know.
If you want to go catch her, I wouldn't be insulted at all.
I know she'd probably be a key element in your interviewing.
So if you'd like to, I don't mind.
No, no, no.
I'll be on the building in a couple of days.
This is important, by the way.
This is important.
So you are physically
who were bringing books down.
Right.
So who told you to do that?
It was my job signed by Dennis, first advised me.
Dennis, once again.
Dennis was... Dennis, how do you spell his name?
M-A-N-N-E-S.
Who was told by, who was told by, who was told by.
I mean, basically, Dennis was told by... M-A-N-N-E-S.
M-A-N-E-S-S.
Do it what's called?
M-A-N...
Two N's or one N?
No, ESS.
ESK.
And he was?
Two S's.
And what's his position?
Well, at the time, he was just art supervisor in the department.
He was a librarian, too, though.
But there was a larger, there wasn't even overhead on the librarian.
That's his name also, I guess.
Another thing that happened was as staff started to get upset at the amount of dumping that was occurring, we had another supervisor on our floor who was immediate to the pages, and she came back from the meeting telling us that the tenor of the meeting was such that people were encouraged to not
acknowledge what was going on.
I don't know how to put it politely, but basically they were told to just sort of sweep it under the carpet if they were approached or asked about the process.
That comment on it.
Right.
And that, in fact, more was on the way.
More was to be coming.
And there was nothing to be done other than to just sort of bite the bullet and deal with it.
So what's your background for you there?
Well, what do you... Are you planning to be a librarian?
Well, yeah, actually, I am enrolled.
I just started this semester at Santa Fe State, and it's a library of information science now.
Right, and I'm avoiding him assiduously.
In fact, I mean, he's already set himself up for, you know, an incredible reputation down there.
He didn't show up for his first class.
You know, whatever.
He's very confident.
How are you?
Oh, yeah.
I told him the ship needs to appear.
I mean, this book will be published in 1999 by Kevin Goldberg Company.
Exactly.
We're more popular than the Giants.
That's all he ever says.
That was a quote by Steve Coulter.
That's all he ever says when he was on TV.
When the library came under severe criticism.
On TV.
That's all he could say in defense of the library.
He's like, you know, we've got these increased numbers in circulation and people coming in.
I'm like, of course, it's a new building.
Several people made the comment that most of the people coming through the doors are here to use the bathrooms.
Right.
And Alan, how about yourself?
I'm not intending at this time to become a librarian.
I've just been thrown into the works of civil service and just embraced it.
So are you both permanent employees or part-time?
Yeah, permanent.
So there's no anxiety about anything happening?
There is.
There's always that.
This book won't be published for two years anyway.
Right.
Now, you know, it's my intention to do something decent, but that's something disruptive.
And how long have you been employed here?
I've been here two, three years, I guess.
Three years.
Claire, what you saw?
I've been here seven years.
Seven and a half years.
So you were over there and here.
Steve Coulter suggested, I say this for a response, that it may have been, this is what he said, an act of sabotage.
on behalf of, not you personally, not you generically, the backup, the reshelving of books taken forever.
Oh, that is insulting.
As it means to protect your jobs and enhance the status of the statute.
I'm sorry, you know, that is infuriating.
I'm just curious to know what your response is.
Well, I can't believe... I'm infuriating.
Right, I can't believe that he would even suggest that.
Well, he suggested that the white librarians are all racists, too.
Right.
And they're motivated by racism, which is a librarian.
And I said, how could that possibly be?
You just got my blood boiling.
I mean, it's just ludicrous.
I mean, it seems to me that the problem is because the staff had been
And I can tell you again, I had a conversation with Ken Dallin after a staff meeting, and I asked him what the hell was he trying, I didn't say it like that, but I said, you know, can you explain to me, why haven't you hired any pages when it's so obvious that we need to hire them?
And he pointed it out, you know, he just made it very obvious, not even obvious, he just said to me that in his plan,
he wanted to basically reduce the paging staff so that it would free up the money so that they could turn around and hire you know three to four times as many people to do the job and he envisioned he envisioned that it would be high school students or college students who just wanted some sort of an introductory experience to the world of libraries not that it would be people on a professional track which is what his complaint was about the staffing
in the building right now that when people get hired as pages they don't tend to stay here for a few years they're here for a long time it's just and it's a result of the job market i believe you know it's a very tough town and it pays well and people aren't going to flop away from the job he had come up with this proposal that he uh i mean he knew what he was doing yeah he gave to the collaborative commission where he was actually planning to lay off um
pages and it was just like i don't know how we can do that we're already short-staffed where what are you going to do in the interim it was like the shelving back logic was sabotaged i mean that's that's that's that's i don't know he used that word he said he said by the way i'm not a legend but but i he said that oh yeah he said that i suspect it as well so well i don't know i mean i could tell you he didn't say i am a legend he said i'm not a legend but i suspect it
And that just shows you, I think... They're clearly wanting me to use it, you know, and... Yeah.
And I'm not trying to incite you to make any rash statements.
I'm on this tape, too.
I don't know.
I'm telling the truth.
I mean, I think that that in itself, I think that defines his relationship with the staff and with the public at this library.
He's an antagonistic SOB.
That's the program in a nutshell.
Yeah, I don't know if you've attended any of the Library Commission meetings.
I've always been here a week.
They've actually calmed down.
They were getting very fiery from him.
People were, you know, calling him names.
I mean, trust me, I'm a literary critic.
Here's my background on that.
I spent three hours with Tilly Olsen, and to call someone like her, you know, a troublemaker, a lefty, a court steward, you know, any number of other things, and this is really the element that's causing all the problems.
That meant that there's anything at all wrong with this thing.
He claims to have not known a thing about quick speed.
And I said, who wanted it?
And he said, we don't know.
It's bullshit.
I mean, there were memos sent around about aggressive weeding.
I mean, it's true.
Those memos circulated.
They asked for aggressive weeding.
Yeah, and that was what was going on.
That was what came out of that day.
Yeah, Kathy Bates, nobody's ever really addressed her on this, which I think is a real problem.
Yeah, when you talk to her.
At the old Maine, before she was actually a part of us, I guess she was still liaison with the new Maine.
She met us all in the newspaper room and she addressed the rumor that was going around that the new Maine would not be able to house our current collection.
She was very emphatic about this.
If anybody tells you that the new Maine will not house the collection, send them to me, because that is absolutely not true.
And look who we're at.
I'm like, God, this is fucking bullshit.
You know?
We're at Brooks Hall, and it's like, we're still weeding.
I see she's allowed me to go see that.
Oh, right.
And the other thing about Brooks Hall is they finally did this presentation that Ken Dallin showed
and they morphed it on a computer terminal to show where the possible location for the car catalog would be in Brooks Hall.
They went through and they swept the entire place out, and they did this beautiful magic morphing on our state-of-the-art 80s.
A morphing is being able to take an image and artificially place it in an environment.
They created the environment.
They made Brooks Hall look like this clean, spare, white space.
Very well lit, by the way.
And what was this picture?
It was on video.
They could probably have it here in A.V.
because they did the project here.
And they made Brooks Hall look like this fantastic place for... Futuristic slab.
No, is this Tate, the one that was done in 1987 or 88?
No, no.
This was a creation.
It was required.
It was asked for when the whole controversy over the card catalog came up.
Yeah.
And it's just...
I don't think the commissioners have it.
I don't know, did Andrea point that to the standing water down there?
I didn't see anything.
Well, I could show you where it is, but it's... We have a commission, not even, I mean, the last I know, not even all the commissioners even owned library cards.
They didn't possess library cards.
And what did he say?
He said yes, but I know he doesn't.
That's an interesting little line.
We can check up on that for you.
It's already checked out.
It's infuriating.
You look at my book.
I do my work.
I also asked him what he reads.
What's the last book he read?
I couldn't name the title.
He reads science fiction.
That our science fiction collection is sitting down in the basement.
It's rotting, don't it?
Do you think things are improving now with Gina?
Well, not necessarily because of her, but things have been improving.
I haven't really had much... I haven't been affected by any of her decisions so far, at least not that I've noticed.
But I think in general, because of the hiring of these 40 new pages and the...
the change in power or something, but Dallin left, and maybe so much.
I mean, actually, I do like Kathy Page.
I think that she may not be the best manager in the world, but I think she's a good person.
Dallin had nothing.
I didn't care for him as a person.
I didn't care for him as a manager.
Kathy Page is a very nice woman.
Even Tilly Ellison said she feels very badly for Kathy.
Yeah, I do, too.
She's a very decent woman.
Oh, yeah.
But I would...
But she was the person who was there while this building was being designed and built.
Right.
She was supposed to be kind of the... The liaison.
So I asked Gina, and I said, you know, she was considered for this job with an endowment.
Gina was.
Yeah, she didn't get it.
I said, now, had you gotten that job with this library, like it does today, it wouldn't even be a cost.
You know, I would not have allowed anything.
Yeah, I wish we had gotten her then.
But that's a very honest...
Well, I think it was Dallman's vision, not just... Well, not only that, I mean, there was a lot of... A lot of work.
Well, I mean, this is just hearsay for the grapevine.
Yeah, hearsay is great.
Basically, she was a novice, and she was abandoned on her task.
When she sought help, people turned her...
Neither Dallin nor Coulter nor the city architects gave her the support and advice that was probably necessary to construct a library that was going to be able to survive 20 years of use.
She was basically left out there on the boat by herself.
I mean, I wish, I mean, I don't know, maybe she wants to do a building and consultancy around private business.
She's going to go into a building and consultancy for library construction.
I mean, I just thought, come on, get a clue.
Oh, I know.
Right.
I was seeing the science fair.
He was running for the ALA.
Right.
That was so great.
I would have been very, very upset.
Other librarians were threatening to remove their membership from ALA.
Let me ask Claire a question.
How old are you?
I am 32.
Because I am also very interested in the profession of librarian.
Yeah.
You know, I mean, you're lucky that there's a school you can study in, you know, I mean, Berkley's, I don't know.
I know, I regret waiting so long, having waited so long to do this.
But what motivates you to work in this area?
To be perfectly frank, I mean, the thing that's motivating me is it's the shitty public service in this building.
I mean, I'm disappointed frequently in the level of performance of my superiors.
And I feel like what goes on is that the lower level people in this building end up doing a lot more work than they get credit for, and they actually are working as librarians.
Even though there is an ingrained hierarchy and everybody would be horrified to hear that this is going on, it's a reality.
And if it's going to be a reality, and then it's going to be recognized for it and get paid for it.
But clearly it's a response to having worked here.
Yeah.
It might be some sort of, you know, mission to... I'm interested in young people who want to work with books.
You know, with all this demise of the book stuff.
Right.
Well, there was a point when the pages thought that their jobs were in dire jeopardy, and there was a large gathering of us, probably about 20 people at least, probably more than 50.
I don't recall the numbers.
But we went in front of the commission, and basically people told their stories to the commission.
This is who we are.
This is what we do.
This is what our qualification is.
We're not just high school students.
We're college students.
Some people held master's degrees.
Some people had families.
Some people said their only job.
It would be ludicrous to fire them.
Well, it comes back about a week later that
Actually, Dowlin told some of the union reps that somebody on the commission, and I'm assuming it's Steve Coulter, said, fire them all.
You know, just get rid of them.
I'm like, after the testimonials of the strengths, it was a very powerful movement on the pages part.
Yeah, I think the biggest problem that our library faces, and this isn't about the history of the burning, it's just that we,
have fallen into the grasp of the telecommunications industry.
Of which, I'm sorry?
The telecommunications industry, and it's in the body of Steve Coulter.
And he is, I think, a... He is mean-spirited enough.
He's just got enough of that... I don't want to say evil, but he's got enough of that short-sighted greed.
personal glory vein in him to ruin it for you know hundreds of thousands of other people for you know years to come and I don't think that he I mean he's I'm sure his bottom line is make sure that you maintain a captive audience at the San Francisco Public Library we need them to keep buying you know those computers we need to maintain those lines and have them pay for them and I think that that's that's what his big trip is I don't believe very much that Steve Colter really gives a shit we have a literate society
My sense is that it's a very anti-intellectual attitude.
Yes.
I spent yesterday with Nick Baker, maybe some day.
Oh, is he back?
Yeah.
He's been helping me a great deal with this.
And he has the list of last books in the system.
Right, exactly.
19,000 books.
And we were going through the list.
And I see all these Chinese books.
I said, Jesus Christ, this is one of the most significant Chinese-American women's in America.
Why would they get rid of these books, you know?
And I said, this is just a list of last books.
I said, do they have a list of books that they get rid of?
He said, no.
I said, you mean they didn't even record the names of the books?
I mean, that's useful information.
It would be very interesting to scholars at some point in the future to say,
And that's why people, I think, fought to maintain the car catalog.
Because, actually, a lot of dumping happened, and this is...
A lot of dumping happened in Brooks Hall.
There was stuff that had been stored there before we even moved over here.
They never even went through it.
They just took the boxes and threw them out.
There's no way to know what was in there.
It was never cataloged online.
And I'm sure there were older, beautiful things.
Once we moved over here, I mean... There were probably about 8,000 books like that.
I know that that's a good figure.
That's a good hard figure on that stuff.
They were just dumped.
You know, it's like, even though the Alexandria Library has been destroyed, and there is a catalog of some, you know...
Even though certain books don't exist, at least in certain people, there is a record in these books.
So you guys tell at least what books were considered worthy enough to enter the city's collection.
And so I said this to Nick, and he said, it's a very anti-intellectual attitude.
right right and i mean basically the whole mission statement of the library if you've gotten your hands on that and if you if you haven't i'm sure that gina would make it available to you is you know basically it's it's to make this into a popular um shallow broad-based collection well i asked her point blank i said
Do you see the library as being a research debt?
She said, no.
And they said, there's an argument over and over again.
In fact, she said, there is not a research library west of the Mississippi.
And I said, come on now.
I said, the Huntington Library is not a research library.
I said, there are pediocrats.
And she said, not really.
But she said, I'm talking public library.
And I said, OK.
You know, I think L.A.
probably has some special collections.
But anyway, her attitude is that it's not the mission of the public library to be a research library.
Let's tell that to Shaw and Virginia Woolf.
Well, I mean, whatever, you know.
You know, like Marie Sundeck, who are totally the product of their reading, you know, at libraries.
Right, I'm sorry.
I mean, I think that the attitude is fine.
If we're going to shift gears, that's fine.
I know that the municipal funds are shrinking or whatever, or not even whatever.
I know that municipal funds are shrinking, and it's going to be a long time before these sorts of public services gain the value in the public side that they held at one point.
But the problem here is that what goes on is we're deciding we're a popular library, so we're going to gut ourselves instead of just trying to hold on to what we have.
It's like it suddenly makes it okay to throw out a very esoteric bibliography of James Joyce's Ulysses.
It's ridiculous.
I mean, this is what goes on.
I mean, stuff falls off the shelves, and because it's, you know, it's the only copy we have, it's a reference book, and because it's so esoteric, nobody's really going to ask for it.
It's not a Daniel Steele novel.
It's not considered worth preparing.
It's just, you know, and that goes on.
I mean, I've had that experience here.
It's in, I don't know, I wish I, I mean, this is bringing up a lot.
I was starting to feel a little bit better about being here, but it just, I am, I'm actually, I'm very angry at what's happened here.
I mean, yesterday we had to do our little introductions at school, and I think I was the only person that sounded the least bit political about why I'm there.
I'm there because I don't want to see this happen anywhere else.
I want to make sure that books are around for people that enjoy for centuries to come.
I don't think that online is the only way that we can go or the way of the future.
You said this at San Jose's?
Yeah.
You told this to the class?
What was the response to that?
Well, the teachers responded very favorably, and so, I mean, I don't know.
They were all kind of, you know, laughing just of what's happened here, or such an excellent example of what you don't want to have happen.
I mean, the class was cracking up, because I said I'd left.
I used to work for Congresswoman Pelosi, and I said I'd left that job, and I came to the library looking for refuge.
and suddenly here I am again, you know, I'm in the middle of this political stuff, and they all started laughing.
Is this an undergraduate degree you're working on?
No, this is a master's degree down there.
So where did you do your undergraduate work?
UC Santa Cruz.
Okay, in what?
Politics.
Are you going to school?
Yeah, you are.
Oh, am I going to school?
I'm going to law school.
Yeah, I'm going to school, probably just an art history major.
Oh, great.
Where?
um actually right now at city college and planning and transfers in san francisco state and how old are you 27. terry olson is 85. i could have fallen down yeah i didn't know that's great i damn near collapsed she was wonderful there's one thing i want to say is like as far as the discretion as far as what books were read it or not um claire pointed out that
maybe they would just not consider an esoteric book but sometimes it was not even that much thought given to it i was uh once we moved over to the old to the new main i went over made a couple more runs to the old main to get some of the remaining books out of sutra stacks which is the our compact storage below the building
and we had all these boxes that were probably there from the earthquake.
I'm not sure when they were placed down there.
During the earthquake, we would stack a lot of books up and put them in boxes in order to house them in a different area.
Anyway, I was bringing these boxes out, and my supervisor would look at the boxes and just like do a cursory glance at the top, a couple books, not even like
pick them up just look at them and decide whether they were going to adopt a book or to to our collection and there was literally uh i'd say about 75 of those boxes went to adopt a book right off the bat and it was like
No consideration after that.
You don't know what's lying underneath there.
I'm sure you've talked with Kathy Bremer, but I think she put it the best at a meeting, at a commission meeting.
They had this whole bullshit was going on in the commission meetings.
They wanted to have a public advisory board for collection maintenance here at this library, and she very aptly reminded them that what happened here was not the fault of librarians.
It was an administrative decision to do this.
and these people were merely told what to do.
The biggest problem with this whole thing is that the review process was non-extent, and people actually in the branches who were going through the gossip books were told that the mean would hold on to these things.
They didn't think that they were really being thrown out.
I mean, I've heard that in retrospect.
I've read that in articles that some of the branch librarians who've spoken with the press have said that that was what they were operating under, was that idea.
And so I think a lot of stuff got thrown out from the branches that never would have been let go if they'd known where it was going to end up, you know?
And that, to me, is the biggest problem.
And even now, the review process still really sucks.
There's no centralization there.
There's no group that's coming together to look at stuff to decide which copy is the best.
And so I think one of the criteria, and the one that prevailed, I'm sure, when we were doing the dumping before I moved here, was you have X number of copies.
How many can I toss?
And you just went and grabbed a few.
You didn't look to see which one was in the best condition.
And some of the stuff that was down there in the doctor book was, you know, it was just, it was excellent condition.
I mean, beautiful old children's books.
I mean, that's the one thing that's infuriating to me is, you know, I mean, things got thrown out like sets of like Mencken's, the American language, and now we're buying new sets of it.
And we're acquiring new reference sets.
I process them.
Is that right?
Yeah, and that's like one of the things that's really pissing me off.
You're buying books that went there with them.
Yeah, we're buying a new books that got tossed and that were in fine condition.
And they were hardbacks.
And now we're buying paperbacks.
And Macon comes to mind.
Can you think of any of that?
Yeah.
That's just the one that I know.
I'll give you my... I've got an 800 number on there.
If you want to give me... The one thing that I... The most important thing to me is that I know personally in the week there that I was getting very upset about what was going on.
And one day I went to, I think...
four different administrators.
I went to Olive James.
I went to Roberto Estevez.
I went up to Roberto Estevez and said, can I please tell them to stop?
Because I went down and I told the man who was throwing the books into the truck to stop.
And he said, nobody wants these.
This is our job.
We're supposed to take them away.
And I said, well, hold on.
And I ran up to the chief of Maine's office and I said, would you please tell them to stop?
I'm serious.
I said, would you please tell them to stop?
And he said that, and he, you know, I don't know if you know Mr. Estevez, but he,
um he has uh i don't know how to say it but not a very good reaction to people a lot of times and and he was he said he's an authoritarian and he was just basically made it clear that it wasn't my you know my area yeah concern well not even that but just that um you know that that no he couldn't tell them to stop and who the hell basically what the attitude was who the hell was i to even come up and talk to him about it
And that it was under the purview of this other guy, Rich Walsh.
And so I then, the next few days, looked for Rich Walsh to talk to him because it was DPW that was coming and taking the stuff.
And in that time, it was when I encountered Kathy Page in the bathroom.
She didn't know me.
I just knew who she was.
I introduced myself.
I explained to her what I'd been observing and said, clearly, there's a problem.
Can't we do something about this?
And she said that my supervisor probably had other things for me to worry about.
I said, well, if I get permission from my supervisor, may I be, you know, part of some sort of program to get this stuff, you know, distributed?
And she said, certainly, or something like that.
But it was all very, you know, I wouldn't say snide, but just kind of not great.
Well, exactly.
You know, the Holocaust already works.
Once the world did know, once it did hit the press,
Oh, you should have seen the backpedaling they were doing.
They had all these calls coming in.
It was sad to me that people had a lie on the phone.
Oh, yeah.
We could hear people just telling blatant lies like, no, no, it's not going on.
But I think they may have believed it.
I mean, I don't know how they could have not seen what was going on a mere 10 feet from them out a window.
But they sat there on the phone and said, oh, no, that's not true.
Everything you've been reading is unfortunately, you know, it's a misstatement or, you know, whatever.
And it was...
And these are people who are good people who actually would not normally, I think it was not... I mean, I think there was a pressure on them from on high to lie, because if the library admitted what had been going on, I mean, it would have been a terrible public reaction.
Did you try to rescue any books?
Yes.
I mean, everybody.
And I didn't want to say that on tape, actually.
But yeah, like the H.L.
Mencken's American Language, I have it at home because they threw it out, you know, and then there they are, they're buying it again.
But books like psychological dictionaries, I mean...
There were definitely things that could be thrown out, like old books in print.
That's the thing that Coulter likes to say, that if we had our way, we would hang on to absolutely everything.
That's not what the people around here are saying.
They're saying that what happened was done so hastily and with so little vision.
So you did save some books.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, totally, yeah.
I've got a pretty decent collection.
A lot of people did.
A lot of people you probably won't even talk to.
Could you describe it generally in terms of content?
Well, a lot of them I took just because they were very pretty books.
I don't know.
There were a lot in foreign languages that I...
I wouldn't be able to understand, but the binding of them.
19th century?
Yeah, beautiful.
That purpose only is why I saved those books.
There are other books, The Anatomy of the Horse, which I've seen quite often referred to.
I think it's Vesalius' book, I'm not too sure.
We've got one copy left right now, and it's in the hardback.
I do have a paperback version of it.
You know, one other thing is they throw out all these old, huge Webster's libraries, I mean, dictionaries we had.
And not that that's a huge loss, I mean, whatever.
But the thing is that we're at a point now where we don't have the money to buy new ones, and they could have repaired them.
And I mean, I know several people who walked home with those dictionaries.
I mean, you know, it's that kind of stuff.
It's just, you know, very little sight.
It must have been hysterical.
The rest of us say that
We can't get those books into that place.
What the hell are we going to do with this stuff?
The library was not built for 1996.
Never mind 23 years down the road, which is the minimum projection.
You're supposed to do at least 20 years.
One would hope you did 22 more than that.
It was, well, 20 years, we're not going to have books.
This is going to be all on computers.
Well, I don't be so sure.
Oh, that's not my words.
I mean, I think that's what people like Steve Colter would like us to believe so that they can make a lot more money, you know?
I mean, if everybody thinks that that's the way it has to be, then, you know, everybody will give up and let it be like that.
Let me just say, because I know you have to go back to you, but it's almost more.
I don't want you to get in trouble.
But, you don't object to somebody using your names.
No, I don't.
I understand that some people think that it's a tribute to the community, but I find it rather
Well, the popular term in a while back was vulcanizing.
I mean, I think what it has done is pitted groups against each other, trying to get money for different things.
You're talking about these affinity groups and the foundation and all this stuff.
Yeah, and as you're saying, I mean, they are a big joke.
They're basically empty rooms.
We don't have enough staff to go in there to make them function as these centers that they could conceivably have, you know,
Well, I think even in that capacity, I don't know that they were necessary.
I mean, I think it undermines the idea that we are one community and that everybody is included and that there's room for everything.
And the beauty of a library is that you're going to encounter something that you might not have.
And when they created these centers, what I felt like happened was
Actually, all of the little nuances in this building, all the little special whatever, the International Center, the African American Center, the way that they've divided the collection up, I feel like it has actually eroded the public's capability to come upon something that they might not have been searching for.
And that, to me, is one of the most important things about a library.
It's also a lot of special interests to determine...
intellectual inquiry.
If you come up with enough money to get the Filipino-American thing, then that's a collection that will develop.
Right.
It's not because this is something we ought to be doing, and this is a strength in this community, and, gee, there's a lot of stuff here.
We can get a very, very strong research depth.
But these are the things, these are the factors that should be influencing the development of a collection.
Not if you can get some, shake some people now for some dough, and
Hey, we'll call this collection the Presby or whatever.
This is going to be the business.
That's not how scholarship should be directed.
A lot of that money probably didn't go towards the collection.
The technology that's in this building is amazing.
You've seen the internet, which are used extensively.
But I don't know if you know about the walking signs.
These little black boxes on the ceiling.
People can get these signs if they're deaf, not deaf, if they're blind.
And they can walk around and point these things, and they navigate by them.
And they can locate the paging desk, the reference desk, any center.
And we've got the ADA terminals, which make the library more accessible to people with disabilities, handicapped visual and physical.
But they're not used.
I don't think I've ever seen them used.
The walking sign is definitely not.
The ADA terminals, the only ADA terminal that's ever used is one on our floor, the ones on the fort.
and the fifth are not being used.
The reason that is is because Alan and I were nominally trained on these things and actually Alan retained the knowledge and I did not.
And he's actually the only person in the building who can sit down with somebody and show them how to use this stuff.
And Alan is working here as a page and this is something that a librarian or a program manager should be doing and organizing and, you know.
and publicizing and that's not happening in our building and it's like when people come up everybody just kind of runs and looks for Alan because you know he's the only person I saw some emails that they're actually trying to get that on the ball and trying to actually get some training but it's what a year and a half down the road and finally they're going to try to get some training it's like
well, why did we buy technology if we didn't know there was going to staff for it?
You know, the usage of it.
It's like, you know, I'm one of those people who, when I buy an instrument, I buy it with all the whistles and bells you could possibly use, and then I use the three buttons, you know?
And this is what the library's done.
It's like, you know, they followed my direction, maybe, you know?
But at least I'm a private individual.
I didn't spend the public's money to blow it.
Here they spend the public's money and just wasted it.
They took their eye off the ball, as we say.
The ball should have been the books and the collections.
Not when you had hand down.
The book was not at all.
It was supposed to have a center for the book here in the library, and that was one of the first centers to go.
Is that right?
Yeah.
Yeah, it was going to be.
There's this incredible lab that's sitting there idly, or maybe it's just the space.
Nobody's ever been wowed into it.
Yeah, it was supposed to be a preservation unit.
So why?
He could go off on it for you.
He could give you an earful.
It's been his personal sorrow.
I know John Cole.
I gave a talk at the Library of Congress last year at the Center of...